In this lesson, I'd like to introduce you to another view directive called V.
If the v f directive allows us to conditionally render a chunk of time out.
So the easiest way to describe it is like an if statement in JavaScript but applied to our template.
In other words, we can render a bit of HTML, but only if a condition is met, only if some condition
is true.
So this allows us to dynamically inject little sections within our channel that we can render on a certain
condition or a certain criteria, but not all the time.
And that allows us, of course, to have really dynamic components in addition, because we're typically
going to assign this VRF directive to some bit of our data.
As our data changes, we can dynamically introduce new chunks of each channel into our existing component.
We can make new elements appear on the screen when some kind of condition is met.
Right.
Very, very interesting stuff.
So here I have my main nav component.
And what I want to do in this component is add a new property to our data object.
So I'm going to scroll down here and we have here our company, our URL, our menu items.
I want to add a new property and I'm going to call it is logged in.
So this is going to be the part of data in our main nav component that's going to keep track of whether
the user has logged in or not and how do we know if the user has logged in.
That happens when the user clicks our eventual action button, right?
And then when they click the button, they are logged in.
That's when we want to show the profile image.
So when the page loads or when the app starts up, our user is not logged in.
So I'm going to assign this a starting value of false.
All right.
So now I'm going to scroll up here.
I'm going to go back to my action button component, and I'm going to apply this very directive.
We can apply the V of directive to any HTML element.
For example, we could use this directive on the div above, or we can also use it on any view component
in this case.
Action button is our own component, but it works the exact same way.
So the way it works is we provide an equal sign here in double quotes, and then we put some kind of
criteria in here, some kind of boolean or evaluation that will evaluate to a boolean.
So I can literally, for example, put the word true here and it's going to say render the action button
if this condition is met.
In this case, the condition is true, which is always true.
So this action will, of course, always render.
And similarly, if this value is false, then the action button would never render because it's saying
only render.
If this is true and this is now always false, it's hardcoded.
And what's interesting is we can put any kind of Boolean expression here.
So rather than just hard coding, true and false, we can do something like this.
Render the action button if five is greater than three.
In this case, this is a mathematical evaluation that evaluates to true.
So in this case, it evaluates to a hardcoded true.
And we're always going to render the action button.
But if we connect this v f to some bit of our data and we can change our data, which will show how
did you later.
Then we're able to dynamically alter the boolean that gets populated here and thus dynamically alter
whether or not the action button component appears in our view.
So what I want to do here is I want to connect this V if conditional to my is logged in property so
I'm going to start by typing in is logged in.
But of course this is not perfectly correct because we don't want to render the action by if the user
is logged in.
We want to render the action button.
If the user is not logged in, when they're not logged in, we render the button.
And when they are logged in, we render their profile image.
So what I'm going to do here is just put a exclamation point in front of this property that's going
to invert the Boolean.
So when this component starts up, the value of is logged in is going to be false.
We're going to convert it to true, which means the VRF is going to have a value of true, which means
it is going to render the action button in our browser upon page load.
And of course all of this is setting up for an eventual state where we will toggle the is logged in
property in order to toggle the appearance of the action button component.
But for now, let's go to our browser and see how this is playing out in our actual view.
And to show this I'm going to bring up my view.
DevTools So I'm going to bring this up and I'm going to bring up my view DevTools And I'm going to click
into my main nav component and we can see that our is logged in property is set to false.
Remember we are inverting that so it's evaluating to true and thus because action is connected to a
V, it's true.
It appears here on our screen and it appears right here in our view.
Dev Tools component, hierarchy, tree.
So what's going to happen if I go to Main NAV and I flip the value of is logged in so I'm going to click
this checkbox that's going to toggle is logged into true and immediately you're going to see the action
button disappear from here and also disappear from our view component tree.
So what's happening here is this value is true, which means when we invert it with the exclamation
point, it is now false in our AVF and because the V of sees the false, it says I'm not rendering whatever
it is that you've attached me to.
In that case, we've attached our view to an action button.
So it says You've given me a false so I am not rendering this action button.
And you can see as I toggle this bit of data back and forth, we can see the button appear in and out.
And that is the power of view.
That is the power of connecting some bit of dynamic data, some bit of JavaScript to our template.
Right?
We're now bringing in this idea of conditional code, if else code, right, branch code, conditionals,
different pathways of execution.
But we are tying that JavaScript logic in view to actual HTML syntax that we see in the template.
All right, so this is a good start to show or hide our actual action button.
And now in the next lesson, we can go ahead and incorporate it with our actual profile image component.
So I will see you there.